# Problem 1
Schedule $S$, serial schedule $S'$ on $S$ transactions, 

## 1.1
**Claim**
>Every conflict serializable schedule is “begin-order preserving conflict serializable”

Prove or disprove the claim.
So we basically have to prove that Conflict serializability $\implies$ begin-order preserving conflict serializability;
What conflicting actions could we have ?

It is **FALSE**, and I can provide a counter example. For instance, let's examine the following schedule:

$S_2 = r_1(x)\ w_2(y)\ w_2(z)\ r_1(y)$
This is schedule is conflict serializable because exists a conflict equivalent schedule $S_2'$:
$S_2' = w2_(y)\ w_2(z)\ r_1(x)\ r_1(y)$
but is not begin-order preserving since I cannot move $r_1(y)$ before $w_2(y)$, that are conflicting actions.

## 1.2
> Is the problem of deciding begin-order c.serializability decidable ?

The problem is decidable. Since the problem of conflict serializability is decidable, the begin-order c.s. is a subproblem (we are still looking for a c.s. schedule).

An algorithm could be:
1. Create a graph of the conflicting transactions;
	
2. Resolve the graph by enumerating all the possible non conflicting transactions order (satisfy graph constraint);
	
3. Look if among them there is a schedule that satisfies also the begin-order property;

So the problem is decidable and it takes:
1. O(N): Just scan the entire sequence looking for conflicts;
2. O(N!): Examine all the possible sequences that satisfies the constraints;
3. O(N!): Scan all the possible schedules;

---
# Problem 2

## 2.1

>Read committed level;

B(T1) r1(D) r1(A) w1(A) B(T2) r2(A) w2(A) B(T3) r3(D) w3(D) r1(D) c3 r1(D) c1 c2

- r1(D) = 30;
- r1(A) = 10;
- w1(A) = 20;
- r2(A) = 10;
- w2(A) = WAIT;
- r3(D) = 30;
- w3(D) = 40;
- r1(D) = 30;
- r1(D) = 40;
- w2(A) = 30;

## 2.2

> repeatable read;

B(T1) r1(D) r1(A) w1(A) B(T2) r2(A) w2(A) B(T3) r3(D) w3(D) r1(D) c3 r1(D) c1 c2

- r1(D) = 30;
- r1(A) = 10;
- w1(A) = 20;
- r2(A) = Stopped;
- w2(A) = Stopped;
- r3(D) = Stopped;
- w3(D) = Stopped;
- r1(D) = 30;
- r1(D) = 30;
- UNLOCK others:
  - r2(A) = 20;
  - w2(A) = 30;
  - r3(D) = 30;
  - w3(D) = 40;

---
# Problem 3
Let $\tau$ be $τ (R, S, T ) = R ∪_s (S −T )$ where $U_S$ is the set union.

## 3.1
Give a 2-pass algorithm that given $R,T,S$ stored as heap computes $\tau$.
**Algorithm**:
1. Store $S$ in the secondary storage tables;
	
2. Store $T$ in the buffer frame (if enough) and, for each element of $T$, if it is also in $S$ (this verification can be performed in efficient way if $S$ is stored as heap file, not list), remove the element from $S$ (from the secondary storage);
	
3. Unload $T$ from the buffer and load $R$. For each element of $R$, just like before, check if it is in $S - T$:
	- If it is in $S - T$, discard it;
	- If it is not in $S - T$, add it to $S - T$ in secondary storage (or, if not enough space, move it to secondary storage);
	Now we have performed the $\tau$ operation, and the result is stored in the secondary storage.

## 3.2
1. **Conditions**: 
	Because I need at least 2 frames (1 for input, 2 for output), If I can scan completely one of the 2 relations with 1 frame (input) and write the result in the other one (output), I will need M-2 frames to cover the other relation completely:
	- $Min(B(S),B(T)) \le M-2$;
	- $Min(B(S-T),B(R)) \le M-2$;
2. **Cost**:
	The cost will be:
	1. $2B(S)$;
	2. $B(T) + 2B(S)$;
	3. $2B(R) + 2B(S)$;
	Total cost: $6B(S) + B(T) + 2B(R)$;

---
# Problem 4

```SQL
Restaurant(code,citycode,seats)
City(citycode,region,country)

QUERY:
select country, sum(seats)
from Restaurant r, City c where r.citycode = c.citycode
group by country
```

Restaurant: 18'000'000 tuples
How many frames does Restaurant use ? a page takes 100 tuples so restaurant occupies 180'000 frames;
City: 19'500 tuples so 195 frames.
150 values in attribute country

M = 200;

We immediately notice that each page can contain 300 values (100 tuples of three values each). Also, we immediately notice that the whole relation City fits in the buffer, and that the 150 tuples of the form (country, sum(seats)) in the result of the query fits in one frame F of the buffer (because 300 values fit in one page, and therefore also in one frame of the buffer). It follows that we can use a one pass algorithm
as follows:
- load the relation City in 195 frames of the buffer;
- load the relation Restaurant one page P at a time in one frame of the buffer and for each tuple t of Restaurant in P single out the tuple t′ of City (at most one) joining with t.  Consider the value c that the tuple t′ has in the attribute country, and update in F the value of sum(seats) corresponding to c, making use of the value that t has in the attribute seats.
The number of page accesses required by the algorithm is simply B(Restaurant) + B(City). Since each page has space for 100 tuples of City, and since Restaurant and City have the same number of attributes, and since we assume that all values requires the same number of bytes, we conclude that each page has space for 100 tuples of Restaurant as well, and therefore B(Restaurant) = 18.000.000/100 = 180.000. Therefore, the number of page accesses required by the algorithm is 180.000 + 195 = 180.195.