# Propositional Logic
### Knowledge Base
For the Wumpus world (Omitting gold for simplicity):
- $p_{x,y}$ pit in x,y
- $w_{x,y}$ Wumpus in x,y
- $b_{x,y}$ Breeze in x,y
- $s_{x,y}$ Stench in x,y
- $I_{x,y}$ Agent in x,y
for $x,y \in \{1,2,3,4\}$ 
 We'll have the following constraints:
 1. Wumpus in exactly one square
	 - $\bigvee w_{x,y} \in \{1,2,3,4\}$ (Wumpus in at least one square)
	 - $\neg(w_{x,y} \wedge w_{x\prime, y\prime}) \ \forall (x,y) \neq (x\prime, y\prime)$ (Wumpus in at most one square)
2. Square $(x,y)$ has stench iff Wumpus in adjacent square
	- $s_{x,y} \leftrightarrow w_{x+1, y} \vee w_{x-1, y} \vee w_{x, y+1} \vee w_{x, y-1}$ 
3. Square $(x,y)$ has breeze if pit in adjacent square, and there is no pit in the first block
	-  $b_{x,y} \leftrightarrow p_{x+1, y} \vee p_{x-1, y} \vee p_{x, y+1} \vee p_{x, y-1}$ 
	- $\neg p_{1,1}$
An interpretation may not satisfy all constraints.

While not knowing the map, we can construct a model considering the constraint of the things observed, concatenated in an _and_ statement. Any interpretation may be valid as long as they satisfy the observations.
It's a satisfiability problem (SAT). Done countless times already.
### Propositional Satisfiability
A propositional formula $\varphi$ is said to be _satisfiable_ if there exists an interpretation I such that $I \models \varphi$
For example:
- $\neg(a \vee b) \rightarrow c$ is satisfiable (For example: $I = \{c\}$).
- $a \wedge (a \rightarrow b) \wedge (b \rightarrow \neg a)$ is not satisfiable.
### Propositional Validity
A propositional formula $\varphi$ is said to be valid if $I \models \varphi$ for all interpretations I
for example:
- $(a \rightarrow b) \wedge (b \rightarrow \neg a)$ is valid.
- $(a\rightarrow b)$ is satisfiable but is not valid.
A valid formula is also called a *tautology*.
### Logical Implication
We might want to know if the subset of all possible interpretations given a propositional formula imply something. For example, given the path we've discovered, we may want to know if a Wumpus is for sure in a given box.
Formula $\varphi$ logically implies $\gamma$ ($\varphi \models \gamma$), if for every $I$ s.t. $I \models \varphi$, it is the case that $I \models \gamma$.
### Logical Equivalence
We might be interested in checking whetever two formulas have the same meaning. $\varphi, \gamma$ are logically equivalent if every interpretation $I$ is such that $I \models \varphi$ if and only if $I \models \gamma$.