Doing exercises page 25, with interpretation in page 21
# Free Variables
> A free occurrence of a variable $x$ is an occurrence of $x$ which is not bout to a quantifier.

Def:
- Any occurrence of $x$ in $t_k$ is free in $P(t_1,...,t_k,...,t_n)$
- Any free occurrence of $x$ in $\phi$ or $\psi$ is also free in their logical conjunction
- Any free occurrence of $x$ in $\phi$ is free in $\forall y.\phi$ and $\exists y.\phi$ if $y$ is distinct from $x$

Free variables represent individuals which must be instantiated to make the formula a meaningful proposition.
A variable $x$ is free in $\phi$ (denoted$\phi(x)$) if there is at least a free occurrence of $x$ in $\phi$. 

==Free variables limit from finding satisfiability since they are not assigned==.
# Ground / Open / Closed Formulas
A formula $\phi$ is **ground** if it does not contain any variable. 
A formula is **open** if it contains at least one free variable, **closed** otherwise.
Obviously, all ground formulas are closed. A closed formula is also called sometimes *sentence*, and they ==aren't changed by assignment, since they don't have variables,== so assignment can be omitted.

Interpretations cannot be changed, while assignment can be changed by definition. 
Examples with formulas present at page 30.
## Common Mistakes
- Use of $\wedge$ with $\forall$
	- $\forall x(WorksAt(Target, x)\wedge Smart(x))$ : this means everyone works at Target and everyone is smart.
	- the correct formula "everybody that works at Target is smart" should be written as $\forall x:(WorksAt(Target,x) \rightarrow Smart(x)$)
- Use of $\rightarrow$ with $\exists$ 
	- $\exists x:(WorksAt(Target, x) \rightarrow Smart(x))$ means "there exist a person so that if they work at Target then they are smart". True as soon as there is someone who doesn't work at Target
	- Correct formula for "there is a Target-working smart person we should write $\exists x:(WorksAt(Target,x) \wedge Smart(x))$ 