We are now going to address the effects:
### Effect Axiom
- For the action $move(x)$ : Given that we already specified the preconditions we need to specify the effect of the action
	- after executing the action, in the successor situation the agent will move to $x:AgentAt(x, s')$. We'll write it ass $\forall s\forall x.AgentAt(x,do(move(x),s))$ . We need tho to check that the Agent is in _only one position_, so we'll need to add another statement to complete this with:
		- $AgentAt(x,do(move(x),s))$
		- $AgentAt(y,s)\wedge x\neq y \rightarrow \neg AgentAt(y, do(move(x), s)$
	- We also add the fact that we pick up any object in the destination cell, which will disappear from the cell and we'll have it on our inventory:
		- $ItemAt(x, y, s) \rightarrow AgentHas(x, do(move(y),s)) \wedge \neg ItemAt(x, y, do(move(y),s))$ 
	- We are not considering what's not changed! In Logic we need to specify also this. For example, the objects that the agent has before executing the $move(x)$ action will need to remain in the agent's inventory. This is **the frame problem**:
		- $AgentHas(x, s)\rightarrow AgentHas(x,do(move(x), s))$
> [!NOTE]
> We'll write the axioms in **normal form**: on the right we'll have an atomic formula with only the affected fluent. As an example $a = move(x) \rightarrow AgentAt(x,do(a,s))$ where we have the form $\gamma \rightarrow F(x,do(a,s))$ which will solve the frame problem.  The action should be written as a variable.
> 
> The axiom  $AgentAt(y,s)\wedge x\neq y \rightarrow \neg AgentAt(y, do(move(x), s)$ will become $\exists x.a = move(x) \wedge AgentAt(y,s)\wedge x\neq y \rightarrow \neg AgentAt(y, do(a, s)$
We'll consider everything from now on in its normal form.

- For the action $drop()$ it's way easier.
	- After executing the action, all items carried by the agent will be dropped
		- $a=drop() \rightarrow \neg AgentHas(x, do(a,s))$
		- $a=drop() \wedge AgentAt(x,s) \wedge AgentHas(y, s) \rightarrow ItemAt(x,y, do(a,s))$ 
- For the action $exit()$ it's similarly chill
	- After exiting, agent is not anymore in the cell it was before
		- $a = exit() \wedge AgentAt(x,s) \rightarrow \neg AgentAt(x, do(a,s))$ 