# 1

The reliable broadcast for synchronous systems is implemented by storing all the message received from a certain process, deliver every message received and if the message delivered was sent from a faulty process, rebroadcast the message. When a process crash, all the message stored for that process must be rebroadcasted. No message is delivered twice because delivered messages are stored by the beb instance.
The only difference in a reliable broadcast implemented in an asynchronous system is that an a.r.b. restransmit always every message delivered, because we can't rely on a PFD.
So we have that the number of message exchanged for each rb broadcast in asynchronous system is $N^2$, while for synchronous it is $N$. If the process crash, also in synchronous there will be $O(N^2)$ messages.

---
# 2

1. Causal order constraints: m1 -> m2, m1 -> m4, m1 -> m3. So we have:
	- (m1,m2,m3,m4);
	- (m1,m4,m2,m3);
	- (m1,m3,m4,m2);
	- (m1,m4,m3,m2);
	- (m1,m2,m4,m2);
	- (m1,m3,m2,m4);
2. We need to deliver any message (m2,m3,m4) before m1, and to deliver always m1 and m3, and to deliver the same set of messages between the correct;

---
# 3

The CAP theorem says that only 2 between this 3 properties of a software replication system can be satisfied:
- Coeherence;
- Availability;
- Partitioning;
Meaning that Coherence = if asked for something, all the replicas reply the same way. Avavilability = replicas will reply if tasked, Partitioning = the system can be divided in indipendent partitions that can't comunicate with each other. We can't satisfy all this conditions at the same time since if we want the system not to comunicate (partitioning), if the replicas are tasked (Availability) they could come up with different values (for example 2 replicas receive different values, but they can't comunicate with each other so the values will keep different), it they are coherent they can't be tasked (system not available), or they can be coherent and tasked, but at this point they need to comunicate (no partitioning).

---
# 4 

- **Validity:** **Satisfied** since when a correct process broadcast a message, send to all processes the message via pp2p, so we can rely on perfect links;
- **No duplication:** **Satisfied** Property of the perfect links, and the delivery happen only when we receive the message. Each message is transmitted only once, so we do not need to save a deliver list since we are going to deliver it only once;
- **No creation:** **Satisfied** Property of pp2 link;
- **Agreement:** **Not satisfied** since can happend that a process sends a message and crash, a correct delivers it but not every correct has received, so not all the correct will deliver the same set of messages;
- **FIFO order:** Respected thanks to the sequence number;

---
# 5

> Counting algorithm in a ring topology

Implement Counter C
Use pp2p links

Upon event < C , Init >:
	next = get_next();
	my_id = get_id();
	counting = false;

Upon event < C, COUNTREQUEST >:
	if counting == true:
		wait();                              # We are already counting
	counting = true;
	counter = 1;
	trigger < pp2p_link, SEND | COUNTFWD, my_id, counter, next >;

Upon event < pp2p_link, DELIVER | COUNTFWD, id, counter, s >:
	if id = my_id:
		trigger < C, COUNTRETURN | counter >;
		counting = false:
	else:
		counter = counter + 1;
		trigger < pp2p_link, SEND | COUNTFWD, my_id, counter, next >;

If processes are anonymous, the previous code will not work because without the ids, we will just rely on the boolean variable counting. In this case, if 2 process start counting at the same time but in different point of the ring, when they receive the COUNTFWD instead of forwarding it they will just keep the value also if the token has not completed the round in the ring.
In the case of anonymous processes, we can create a function that assigns an id to each process. To do it, we must rely on a statistic method. A deterministic method would not work because if it start enumerating from deterministic chosen number, then we have a problem if 2 processes start the execution contemporary.
By choosing a random number contemporary over n possible number, the probability that the 2 process choose the same number is $1/n$.