# Question 1 (REST web services)
Discuss what a REST Web service is, all the concepts and technologies underlying them. Describe how concretcly a programmer can develop a REST Web service in Java by providing simple pscudo-code. Then design the interfaces of a (set of) REST Web service(s) that are able to provide information on public transportation, e.g.. lines buses, stops, time of scheduled arrivals, current (real) time of arrival, etc. In doing this last exercise. please provide motivations on the choices you may do, and develop the solution on the basis of such assumptions.

# Question 2 (SCRUM)
Describe ALL the basic elements of SCRUM. Then consider a system as INFOSTUD (the system used by Sapienza University of Rome for managing exams and all the students lifecycle - you know all its fcatures/fiunctionalitics) and assume you have a team of 7 persons - including U1 designers, databasc designer, programmers, etc. The length of a sprint of 4 wecks. Propose and discuss a possiblc product backlog, and show the division of the features over the sprints, by presenting how you would evolve the system over 6 months of project (i.c., you have to present the initial 6 sprints of the project).


# Question 3 (Function Points)
Describe the method of Function Points for evaluating software development complexity. Provide all the basic notions and exemplify through examples, whenever possible and appropriate.

---

# Solution 1
REST web service is an architectural style used mainly to design Web API.
Data are transmitted via HTTP without any additional layers.
We have HTTP methods which are used to perform this kind of requests, such as GET, POST, DELETE, PUT.
https://my.bio/darkness-empire